# dbt-airalo Case Study
📚 dbt project to transform and generate semantic layer focused on customer acquisition metrics.

## Please write a short response covering:
#### How you approached the data modeling problem?
Once I had the data in BQ, I looked into duplicated rows, but also nulls on primary keys. I also explored the data with distinct to understand what values were being recorded for status, country, etc. 

Once I got the idea of the data information and quality, I decided to model the data into a dbt dimensional model with marts. 

The decision was made based on the exercise, here the main focus was user behavior and I modeled the tables in order to create a semantic layer based on a user mart.

For that I used:
- staging to do basic cleaning
- intermediate to leverage heavy transformations and joins
- marts to allow easy access data based on entity models with the idea of building a semantic layer that non-technical users could easily query with external tools <p>

I tried to develop the dbt project with the idea of how it's good practice to do it according to the source nature. 

For example: fct_order as an accumulating fact, dim_user as a SCD2, and fct_exchange_rate as a periodic snapshot fact.

So that we would have the most information about users and also the most accurate revenue numbers. 

#### Key assumptions you made about the data
For exchange_rates and assumed that the first rate in the table was the current rate to calculate usd and gbp amounts. <p>
For fct_orders I assumed that if a user placed an order in the morning and another one in the afternoon, that the secound order would apear on the next day. 

#### Any data quality issues you encountered and how you handled them
I found out that fct_order had duplicates, and deduped the rows in the intermediate layer and created the following int order to be easier to spot purchase processes.: <p> 
- completed_at
- failed_at
- refunded_at 
<p>

Also the ISO country codes were not uniform so I cast the codes, and standardized the primary keys so when doing joins I wouldn't have to cast them every time. 

#### How did you decide what to analyze
To decide what to analyze to answer the question about marketing focus, I thought that an analysis based on user purchase behaviour would be the key. So I created a user mart with metrics like: <p>
- number of new users
- number of returned users
- average amount spent by new users
- average amount spent by returned users
- average time in days for a user to return
- percentage of total revenue generated by new users
- percentage of total revenue generated by returned users
 
Here's a query example:
```SQL
select 
  
  sum(is_new) as new_users, 
  round(sum(gbp_amount_spent_new), 2) as total_amount_spend_new, 
  round(sum(gbp_amount_spent_new) / sum(is_new), 2) as avg_amount_spent_new, 
  sum(case when is_new = 1 then total_orders else 0 end) as total_orders_new,
  100 * sum(gbp_amount_spent_new)/sum(total_gbp_amount_spent) pct_revenue_new, 
  
  sum(has_returned) as returned_users, 
  sum(gbp_amount_spent_returned) as total_amount_spend_returned, 
  round(sum(gbp_amount_spent_returned) / sum(has_returned), 2) as avg_amount_spent_returned, 
  sum(case when has_returned = 1 then total_orders else 0 end) as total_orders_returned,
  100 * sum(gbp_amount_spent_returned)/sum(total_gbp_amount_spent) as pct_revenue_returned

from `mart.user`  
```

From this query the results show that 80% of the revenue is generated by returned users indicating that there isn't much room to improve on the returned users side. I would recommend to focus on acquisition, and a deeper analysis on which acquisition channels to focus.


